# File Structure

The basic file structure of my projects looks like 

```
code
  └── set_environment.do
  └── metafile.do
  └── build
  └── analysis
data
  └── raw 
  └── derived 
output
  └── graphs
```

The **code** folder holds all of the code for a project, which depending on the situation may be hosted on Github or Dropbox (more on this later). The **build** subfolder stores code files that are concerned with constructing data for the project (turning `raw` files into `derived` files). The **analysis** subfolder stores code that runs the analysis for the project. The `metafile.do` file is a master do file that should theoretically be able to replicate the project. It should contain all the relevant do files listed in order and briefly described. In theory, equipped with the `raw` folder and the `code` folder, running `metafile.do` should be able to re-create everything else in the project.

The **data** folder holds all the data for the project. The **raw** folder are data files that were not generated by the project's code. The **derived** folder holds all datasets created by the project's code. With **code** and **raw** you should be able to recreate **derived**. The **output** folder contains all non-data related output i.e. graphs, results, tables etc.

# File paths

File paths are always a tricky issue that make it different to share code among individuals with different setups. To try and simplify this, I define a set of globals in my `profile.do` which is a file run every time Stata is started. The relevant globals are `${dropbox}` and `${github}`. In theory, as long as you define globals to point to where the data are store and the code is located (sometimes these will be the same) on your machine then you will be able to run all subsequent do-files. 

File paths for the project are generated in a code file `set_environment.do` and are all relative to a `${root}` directory which will depend on the `${dropbox}` and `${github}` globals. This code file is loaded by each other code file at the top

```stata
include "${github}/project_name/code/set_environment.do"
```

And all the relevant filepaths will be loaded. The root directory for the project is `${github}/project_name`, so as long as `${github}` is defined appropriately for your machine you will be able to run all of the code.

An example might look like

```stata
* Filepaths
global root "${github}/project_name"
global raw "${root}/data/raw"
global graphs "${root}/output/graphs"
```

All filepaths are defined relative to the `${root}` global, so as long as this points to the project folder on your machine the code should run! In order for Stata to be able to run `set_environment.do` we need the `"${github}"` and `"${dropbox}"` globals to be defined! Hence the use of the `profile.do`.

## Setting up symbolic links

I like to use Github, so all of my projects are hosted in my local Github folder which is referenced by the `${github}` global. I store all of my data in Dropbox and use symbolic links (see here: [Mac](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/115646/how-can-i-create-a-symbolic-link-in-terminal), [Windows](https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/16226/complete-guide-to-symbolic-links-symlinks-on-windows-or-linux/_)) so that I can reference files in my Dropbox locally from my Github folders. For these projects the root directory relies on the `${github}` global. Other projects might be entirely hosted on Dropbox and those will rely on the Dropbox global. In rare cases, some projects may use both, and will rely on both globals.

To do this on Mac, navigate from the terminal to the Github project on your machine. Then write 
```bash 
ln -s /Users/onoratod/Dropbox/projects/example/data
```
where the path should point to the Dropbox directly you want to link to. You'll need to repeat this for each folder you want to link over to your Github directory. 

It is important that you appropriately modify the `.gitignore` file so that Github doesn't try to upload all of these pesky symbolic links. For example, you should add this to your `.gitignore` file when adding the above directory so that it ignores the data folder we linked to. 

```bash
/data
data 
data/
```


